Global Connections (#5829)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections.md

These connection instructions provide the basic fields required for configuring a data platform connection in dbt Cloud. For more detailed guides, which include demo project data, read our [Quickstart guides](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides)

## Connection management

:::info Connections are moving!

> Up until July 2024, connections were nested under projects. One dbt Cloud project could only have one single connection, which was re-used across all of its environments. Extended attributes were leveraged to switch warehouse instances depending on the environment for a given project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Up until July 2024, connections were nested under projects. One dbt Cloud project could only have one connection, which was re-used across all its environments. Extended attributes were leveraged to switch warehouse instances depending on the environment for a given project. 
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-legacy-model.png" title="Previous connection model"/>

> We are rolling-out an important change that moves connections to be managed at the account level. This is what is described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are rolling out an important change that moves connection management to the account level. The following connection management section describes these changes. 

This feature is being rolled out in phases over the coming weeks. 
```

These connection instructions provide the basic fields required for configuring a data platform connection in dbt Cloud. For more detailed guides, which include demo project data, read our [Quickstart guides](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides)

## Connection management

:::info Connections are moving!

Up until July 2024, connections were nested under projects. One dbt Cloud project could only have one connection, which was re-used across all its environments. Extended attributes were leveraged to switch warehouse instances depending on the environment for a given project. 

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-legacy-model.png" title="Previous connection model"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-legacy-model.png" width="60%" title="Previous connection model"/>
```

We are rolling out an important change that moves connection management to the account level. The following connection management section describes these changes. 

This feature is being rolled out in phases over the coming weeks. 

:::

> Warehouse connections are an account level resource. As such you can find them under **Accounts Settings** > **Connections**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Warehouse connections are an account-level resource. As such you can find them under **Accounts Settings** > **Connections**:
```

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-list.png" title="Connection list"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-list.png" width="60%" title="Connection list"/>
```

> Warehouse connections can be re-used across projects. If multiple projects all connect to the same warehouse, you should re-use the same connection in order to streamline your management operations. Connections are assigned to a project via an environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Warehouse connections can be re-used across projects. If multiple projects all connect to the same warehouse, you should re-use the same connection in order to streamline your management operations. Connections are assigned to a project via an [environment](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments). 
```

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-new-model.png" title="Connection model"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-new-model.png" width="60%" title="Connection model"/>
```

> As shown above, a project with 2 environments can target between 1 and 2 different connections. If you want to separate your production environment from your non-production environment, use multiple connections for a single project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown in the image, a project with 2 environments can target between 1 and 2 different connections. If you want to separate your production environment from your non-production environment, assign multiple connections to a single project.
```

### Migration from project level connections to account level connections

> As we roll-out account level connections, you should not expect any interruption of service in your current usage (IDE, CLI, jobs...).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rolling out account-level connections will not require any interruption of service in your current usage (IDE, CLI, jobs, etc.).
```

> But to fully utilize the value of account level connections, you may have to re-thing how you assign and use connections across projects and environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, to fully utilize the value of account-level connections, you may have to rethink how you assign and use connections across projects and environments.
```

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout.png" title="Typical connection setup post rollout"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout.png" width="60%" title="Typical connection setup post rollout"/>
```

> Please read all of the potential actions below before beginning to work on your connections, as depending on the final outcome you wish to attain you may want to take different first steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please consider all of the following actions, as the steps you take will depend on the desired outcome.
```

> - Initial clean-up (connection list)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The initial clean-up of your connection list
```

>   - Delete un-used connections (with 0 environment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Delete unused connections with 0 environments. 
```

>   - Re-name connections to a temporary naming scheme, to better understand where each is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Rename connections with a temporary, descriptive naming scheme to better understand where each is used
```

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout-2.png" title="Post initial clean-up"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout-2.png" width="60%" title="Post initial clean-up"/>
```

> - Decide on a granularity 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Get granular with your connections
```

>   - Define an intent for each connection, usually a combination of warehouse/database instance, intended use (dev/prod…), and administrative surface (which teams/projects will want to change that connection together)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Define an intent for each connection, usually a combination of warehouse/database instance, intended use (dev, prod, etc), and administrative surface (which teams/projects will need to collaborate on the connection)
```

>   - Try to aim for a minimization of the need for local overrides (like extended attributes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Aim to minimize the need for local overrides (like extended attributes)
```

>   - Settle on a naming convention - we recommand you name connections after the server hostname and distinct intent/domain/configuration - it will be easier to re-use connections across projects this way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Come to a consensus on a naming convention.  We recommend you name connections after the server hostname and distinct intent/domain/configuration. It will be easier to reuse connections across projects this way
```

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout-3.png" title="Granularity determined"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout-3.png" width="60%" title="Granularity determined"/>
```

> - De-duplication (connection list + environment details - not touching extended attributes for now)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deduplication (connection list + environment details &mdash; not touching extended attributes for now)
```

>   - Based of the granularity decided above, decide which connection should remain among groups of duplicates, and update every relevant environment to leverage that connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Based of the granularity of your connection details, determine which connections should remain among groups of duplicates, and update every relevant environment to leverage that connection
```

>   - Delete un-used connections (with 0 environment) as you go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Delete unused connections with 0 environments as you go
```

>   - All de-duplications are not wanted. If you want connections to be maintained by 2 different groups of users, you may want to maintain 2 identical connections to the same warehouse so each group can evolve them as they see fit without impacting the other group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Deduplicate thoughtfully. If you want connections to be maintained by two different groups of users, you may want to preserve two identical connections to the same warehouse so each can evolve as each group sees fit without impacting the other group
```

>   - Do not update extended attributes at this stage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Do not update extended attributes at this stage
```

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout-4.png" title="Connections de-duplicated"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout-4.png" width="60%"title="Connections de-duplicated"/>
```

- Normalization
  - Undertsand how new connections should be created to avoid local overrides. If you currently use extended attributes to override the warehouse instance in your production environment - you should instead create a new connection for that instance, and wire your production environment to it, removing the need for the local overrides
  - Create new connections, update relevant environments to target these connections, removing now unecessary local overrides (which may not be all of them!)
  - Test the new wiring by triggering jobs or starting IDE sessions

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout-5.png" title="Connections normalized"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connections-post-rollout-5.png" width="60%" title="Connections normalized"/>
```
